RELEASE NOTES

ScalaCheck 1.4

Author: Rickard Nilsson (rickard.nilsson@telia.com)

ScalaCheck is a powerful tool for automatic unit testing of Scala and Java
programs. It features automatic test case generation and minimization of
failing test cases. ScalaCheck started out as a Scala port of the Haskell
library QuickCheck, and has since evolved and been extended with features not
found in Haskell QuickCheck.

The main features of ScalaCheck is:

  * Unit properties are written directly in Scala, using combinators
    from the ScalaCheck library.

  * Properties are tested automatically, with test data generated by
    ScalaCheck. Data generation can be precisely controlled, and generation
    of custom data types is simple to define.

  * Failing test cases are minimised automatically, which makes pin-pointing
    error causes easier.

  * Support for stateful testing of command sequences, and minimization of
    failing command sequences.

This release of ScalaCheck introduces a number of minor fixes and improvements
since the last release. Most work has been done on trying to improve the test
reports for properties that fail. ScalaCheck now presents complete stack traces
if exceptions are thrown during property evaluation. It is now also possible to
collect statistics on generated test data which is presented in the test report
so you can inspect the distribution of test cases. This feature is similar to
the functionality found in Haskell QuickCheck. Furthermore, you can now label
individual parts of a property, to make it easier to find out exactly what part
of the property failed during evaluation. For more information, see the updated
User Guide, in the last paragraphs of the Properties section and the Generators
section.

There is now a mailing list available for all ScalaCheck users at
scalacheck@googlegroups.com. Here you can ask any question regarding
ScalaCheck. For more information and registration, visit the group site at
http://groups.google.com/group/scalacheck.

Please see the change history on ScalaCheck's project site for more details on
the fixes, changes and additions in this release.

ScalaCheck availability:

  * Project site:
    http://www.scalacheck.org

  * User Guide
    http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck/wiki/UserGuide

  * Mailing list:
    scalacheck@googlegroups.com
    See http://groups.google.com/group/scalacheck for information and 
    registration.

  * Installation with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

    If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * Binary JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.4.jar

  * Source JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.4-src.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/

  * Maven repository at scala-tools.org:

    Add this to your pom.xml:

    <repositories>
       <repository>
         <id>scala-tools.org</id>
         <name>Scala-Tools Maven2 Repository</name>
         <url>http://scala-tools.org/repo-releases</url>
       </repository>
    </repositories>

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.scalacheck</groupId>
      <artifactId>scalacheck</artifactId>
      <version>1.4</version>
    </dependency>



PREVIOUS RELEASES

ScalaCheck 1.3

Author: Rickard Nilsson (rickard.nilsson@telia.com)

ScalaCheck is a powerful tool for automatic unit testing of Scala and Java
programs. It features automatic test case generation and minimization of
failing test cases. ScalaCheck started out as a Scala port of the Haskell
library QuickCheck, and has since evolved and been extended with features not
found in Haskell QuickCheck.


The main features of ScalaCheck is:

  * Unit properties are written directly in Scala, using combinators
    from the ScalaCheck library.

  * Properties are tested automatically, with test data generated by
    ScalaCheck. Data generation can be precisely controlled, and generation
    of custom data types is simple to define.

  * Failing test cases are minimised automatically, which makes pin-pointing
    error causes easier.

  * Support for stateful testing of command sequences, and minimization of
    failing command sequences.


This release of ScalaCheck introduces a number of minor fixes and improvements
since last release. The Commands API has been polished, it is now simpler to
define properties on stateful systems. The User Guide has been improved, and
examples on how to group properties with the Properties trait has been added.

Please see the change history on ScalaCheck's project site for more details on
the changes and additions in this release.


ScalaCheck availability:

  * Project site:
    http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck/

  * Installation with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

    If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * Binary JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.3.jar

  * Source JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.3-src.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/

  * Maven repository at scala-tools.org:

    Add this to your pom.xml:

    <repositories>
       <repository>
         <id>scala-tools.org</id>
         <name>Scala-Tools Maven2 Repository</name>
         <url>http://scala-tools.org/repo-releases</url>
       </repository>
    </repositories>

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.scalacheck</groupId>
      <artifactId>scalacheck</artifactId>
      <version>1.3</version>
    </dependency>


ScalaCheck 1.2

Author: Rickard Nilsson (rickard.nilsson@telia.com)

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck 2 library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

The main features of ScalaCheck is:

  * Unit properties are written directly in Scala, using combinators
    from the ScalaCheck library.

  * Properties are tested automatically, with test data generated by
    ScalaCheck. Data generation can be precisely controlled, and generation
    of custom data types is simple to define.

  * Failing test cases are minimised automatically, which makes pin-pointing
    error causes easier.

  * Support for stateful testing of command sequences, and minimization of
    failing command sequences.


This release of ScalaCheck is compatible with (and requires) Scala 2.7. It
introduces some additions, improvements and fixes since ScalaCheck 1.1.1. The
most notable feature addition is support for parallel test execution on systems
with multiple processor cores, by utilization of the Scala Actors library. 

Due to improvements in Scala's type inferencer the Arbitrary mechanism has been
improved, and a Shrink trait has been added. In short, to define custom
Arbitrary and Shrink instances in ScalaCheck 1.2, use the following style:

  implicit def arbOption[T](implicit a: Arbitrary[T]): Arbitrary[Option[T]] =
    Arbitrary(Gen.oneOf(Gen.value(None), arbitrary[T].map(Some(_))))

  implicit def shrinkOption[T](implicit s: Shrink[T]): Shrink[Option[T]] =
    Shrink {
      case None => Stream.empty
      case Some(x) => shrink(x).map(Some(_))
    } 

See the user guide for detailed examples of implicit Arbitrary and Shrink
instances.

Please see the change history on ScalaCheck's project site for more details on
the changes and additions in this release.


ScalaCheck availability:

  * Project site:
    http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck/

  * Installation with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

    If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * Binary JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.2.jar

  * Source JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.2-src.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/

  * Maven repository at scala-tools.org:

    Add this to your pom.xml:

    <repositories>
       <repository>
         <id>scala-tools.org</id>
         <name>Scala-Tools Maven2 Repository</name>
         <url>http://scala-tools.org/repo-releases</url>
       </repository>
    </repositories>

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.scalacheck</groupId>
      <artifactId>scalacheck</artifactId>
      <version>1.2</version>
    </dependency>


ScalaCheck 1.1.1

Author: Rickard Nilsson (rickard.nilsson@telia.com)

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck 2 library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

The main features of ScalaCheck is:

  * Unit properties are written directly in Scala, using combinators
    from the ScalaCheck library.

  * Properties are tested automatically, with test data generated by
    ScalaCheck. Data generation can be precisely controlled, and generation
    of custom data types is simple to define.

  * Failing test cases are minimised automatically, which makes pin-pointing
    error causes easier.

  * Support for stateful testing of command sequences, and minimization of
    failing command sequences.


This release introduce no changes at all since ScalaCheck 1.1, it is just a
rebuild of the library using Scala 2.6.1, since ScalaCheck 1.1 proved to be
binary incompatible with Scala 2.6.1. Please upgrade to ScalaCheck 1.1.1 if you
are using Scala 2.6.1. For more information on what was introduced in
ScalaCheck 1.1, see the previous release notes below.


ScalaCheck availability:

  * Direct installation with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

    If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * Binary JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.1.1.jar

  * Source JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.1.1-src.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/

  * Maven repository at scala-tools.org:

    Add this to your pom.xml:

    <repositories>
       <repository>
         <id>scala-tools.org</id>
         <name>Scala-Tools Maven2 Repository</name>
         <url>http://scala-tools.org/repo-releases</url>
       </repository>
    </repositories>

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.scalacheck</groupId>
      <artifactId>scalacheck</artifactId>
      <version>1.1.1</version>
    </dependency>


ScalaCheck 1.1

Author: Rickard Nilsson (rickard.nilsson@telia.com)

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck 2 library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

The main features of ScalaCheck is:

  * Unit properties are written directly in Scala, using combinators
    from the ScalaCheck library.

  * Properties are tested automatically, with test data generated by
    ScalaCheck. Data generation can be precisely controlled, and generation
    of custom data types is simple to define.

  * Failing test cases are minimised automatically, which makes pin-pointing
    error causes easier.

  * Support for stateful testing of command sequences, and minimization of
    failing command sequences.


This release introduces minor functionality improvements, some new helper
methods and arbitrary generators for some new types. It also has (experimental)
support for stateful command sequence testing (in a state machine fashion à la
Erlang QuickCheck), with the new trait scalacheck.Commands. Please see the last
section of the User Guide for more information on this library. Also remember
that the library interface probably will change in future releases.

The sbaz package has been improved in this release, with sources and api
documentation added.

NOTE: The ScalaCheck root package has been CHANGED from just 'scalacheck' to
'org.scalacheck'. The trait Testable has been renamed to Properties.

From now on, ScalaCheck will also be available in the Maven repository at
scala-tools.org. See further details below.


For more info, user guide, change history, etc, see the project site at:

  http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck


ScalaCheck availability:

  * Direct installation with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

    If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * Binary JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.1.jar

  * Source JAR:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.1-src.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/

  * Maven repository at scala-tools.org:

    Add this to your pom.xml:

    <repositories>
       <repository>
         <id>scala-tools.org</id>
         <name>Scala-Tools Maven2 Repository</name>
         <url>http://scala-tools.org/repo-releases</url>
       </repository>
    </repositories>

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.scalacheck</groupId>
      <artifactId>scalacheck</artifactId>
      <version>1.1</version>
    </dependency>


ScalaCheck 1.0

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck 2 library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

The main features of ScalaCheck is:

  * Unit properties are written directly in Scala, using combinators
    from the ScalaCheck library.

  * Properties are tested automatically, with test data generated by
    ScalaCheck. Data generation can be precisely controlled, and generation
    of custom data types is simple to define.

  * Failing test cases are minimised automatically, which makes pin-pointing
    error causes easier.


This release does not add any major new functionality since the 1.0-RC1 release,
but some bugs have been fixed and the code has been cleaned up a bit. Also,
this release depends on Scala 2.6.0, since it uses some of its new features.


For more info, user guide, change history, etc, see the project site at:

  http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck


Downloading ScalaCheck:

  * Direct install with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

  * If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.0-RC1.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/



ScalaCheck 1.0-RC1

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck 2 library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

The main feature that release 1.0-RC1 adds is test case minimisation, or
shrinking, which is a feature also found in QuickCheck 2. Moreover, ScalaCheck
has been refactored and stabilised, and is soon ready for a 1.0 release.
Also, a User Guide has been written which can be found on the project site.

For more info, user guide, change history, etc, see the project site at:

  http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck


Downloading ScalaCheck:

  * Direct install with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

  * If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-1.0-RC1.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/



ScalaCheck 0.2

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

Release 0.2 adds several bug fixes and some improvements. The most noteworthy
new feature is the Testable trait, which makes it easy to define and check
a batch of properties, directly in the implementing code if desired.

For more info, tutorials, change history, etc, see the project site at:

  http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck


Downloading ScalaCheck:

  * Direct install with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

  * If you already have an earlier version of ScalaCheck installed, you
    just need to run:

    sbaz upgrade

  * http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-0.2.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/



ScalaCheck 0.1

ScalaCheck is a Scala implementation of the QuickCheck library for Haskell.
It tries to keep the look and feel of QuickCheck as much as possible, while
being open for improvements and extensions that can ease the task of
property-based, randomized testing of Scala programs.

This is an early release of ScalaCheck, with basic functionality. Most of
the generator and property combinators from QuickCheck are implemented, as
well as a basic checker function that prints results to the console in
QuickCheck-style. There are default generators for integers, characters,
strings, booleans, and lists ans tuples over arbitrary types.

For more info, see the project site at:
http://code.google.com/p/scalacheck


Downloading ScalaCheck:

  * Direct install with sbaz:

    sbaz update
    sbaz install scalacheck

  * http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/files/ScalaCheck-0.1.jar

  * Source repository:
    http://scalacheck.googlecode.com/svn/
